We’d like to welcome all of you
to JW Broadcasting®
for February 2021!
In Parts 1 and 2 of the annual meeting,
we enjoyed encouraging announcements,
videos, talks, and interviews.
Now we’ll enjoy the final part
of the annual meeting.
Please pay close attention
as we begin with a talk
by Brother Kenneth Cook entitled
“Will You Keep Standing Among the Righteous?”
We live in a time of judgment.
We’re not talking
about flawed human judgment.
We’re talking about the perfect judgment
that comes from the heavenly Kingdom
in Jesus’ hands.
Jesus spoke of this judgment
in his great prophecy
about the “last days” found
in Matthew chapters 24 and 25.
After outlining what we could expect to see,
he provided three parables
that deal with final judgment.
In Matthew chapter 25,
the first two parables
relate to the final sealing
of genuine anointed ones.
These parables will be fulfilled
not long before the great tribulation begins.
Next, in the third parable,
Jesus gives attention to the rest of mankind.
Let’s read the opening four verses
of what he said starting in verse 31:
“When the Son of man comes in his glory,
and all the angels with him,
“then he will sit down
on his glorious throne.
“All the nations will be gathered before him,
“and he will separate people
one from another,
“just as a shepherd separates
the sheep from the goats.
“And he will put the sheep on his right hand,
“but the goats on his left.
“Then the King will say
to those on his right:
“‘Come, you who have been blessed
by my Father,
“‘inherit the Kingdom prepared for you
from the founding of the world.’”
“Inherit the Kingdom,”
in other words, Paradise,
the earthly realm of the Kingdom.
When is this fulfilled?
After Jesus comes in his glory, he said,
and judges those then living.
Jesus said that this judgment would result
in a figurative separating of people
to his right hand and to his left hand,
like separating sheep from goats.
Jesus calls those
at his right hand “righteous.”
However, he calls those
separated to his left hand “cursed,”
and he sends them off
into everlasting destruction.
Since the first two parables
involve judgment that takes place
before the great tribulation,
what about this third parable?
When does Jesus start
to identify the righteous sheep
and the cursed goats?
Back in 1995,
The Watchtower  helped us to understand
that the final judgment of the sheep
and the goats will be decided
when Jesus comes in his glory
during the great tribulation.
Does this mean that the judgment process
does not start until then?
The answer is no.
Why can we say this?
Well, let’s illustrate the point.
Think about judgments
delivered by a Supreme Court.
When the day arrives
for a judgment to be announced,
does this mean that only then the court
starts to consider the evidence at hand?
No.
By that time,
the court has already read briefs,
they have prepared and heard oral arguments,
and then they consider
the legal background to the case.
This may take considerable time.
No court opinion is considered final
until it is delivered in open court
or released to the public.
What is the point?
Well, if the Supreme Courts
of human governments
take time to hear all the facts
and to weigh all the circumstances,
should we be surprised that Jesus
is wisely using his time now
to judge people fairly?
By the start of the great tribulation,
Jesus will know who
is goatlike and who is sheeplike.
How so?
Well, consider this:
To a degree, even we can see
where people are choosing to stand.
True, the Bible foretold
that this would be the case
in Malachi chapter 3.
There we find prophetic words
that point ahead
to events in the first century
and in modern times.
Then verse 18 says that we would
“see the distinction between
a righteous person and a wicked person,
“between one serving God
and one not serving him.”
If we can see the distinction,
then we can be certain
that Jesus is far ahead of us.
What does Jesus see?
Well, we can be sure
that he’s carefully watching
the attitudes, actions,
and speech of each person.
For example, he sees
their response to the good news.
Also, Jesus is observing
whether individuals support
his anointed brothers
who will serve with him in the Kingdom.
At Matthew 25:35-40,
Jesus said that his brothers
would experience many trials.
And he explained that those
whom he judges as sheep
are the ones who assist his brothers.
He also said that he views
what is done to them
as being done to him.
While Christ’s brothers will undoubtedly face
trials during the great tribulation,
how are they helped now?
Doing good to Christ’s brothers now
includes working
along with them as they strive
to complete the preaching
of the good news of the Kingdom.
Jesus takes note of this.
What else does Jesus observe?
At Matthew 12:36, 37,
Jesus stated that a person’s words
would also be a basis
for how he or she is judged.
Let’s look at what Jesus said
at Matthew 12:36, 37.
Jesus said: “I tell you that men will render
an account on Judgment Day
“for every unprofitable saying
that they speak;
“for by your words
you will be declared righteous,
and by your words you will be condemned.”
So then, does Jesus hear what we say?
Yes, he does,
including what we have said
in preaching the good news.
Now, by using the words
“render an account” here,
Jesus was referring
to what a person has said in the past.
That thought is reinforced
by the use of the past tense
at Matthew 25:34-40 for the sheep
and 41-45 for the goats.
For example, in verse 40,
Jesus says to the sheeplike ones:
“To the extent that you did it [past tense]
“to one of the least of these my brothers,
you did it to me.”
What does this tell us?
It tells us that everyone who desires
to be viewed as a righteous sheep
must build up a good record
of support for Christ’s brothers—now!
A person must be sheeplike
when entering the great tribulation,
and they must remain sheeplike
to the very end.
By the time
“the Son of man comes in his glory,”
it will be far too late to build up
such a good record with him.
Jesus is like the king mentioned
at Proverbs 20:8.
There it says:
“When the king sits on the throne to judge,
he sifts out all evil with his eyes.”
In line with this, we can be certain
that Jesus, our heavenly King,
is already sifting and taking note
of who are goatlike
in their attitudes, actions, and speech.
For those who continue refusing
to serve Jehovah and his Kingdom,
their judgment will be in place
as the great tribulation begins.
We can say this
because there are no Scriptural indications
of any conversions to pure worship
during the great tribulation.
Instead, we read at Revelation 6:16, 17
that those who chose
not to obey the good news
will at that time turn to man-made things
to try to save them.
They will run to things that they view
as mountainlike, or strong,
such as their political
and commercial systems.
Revelation 6:16 tells us
that they will cry out to such things saying:
“Fall over us and hide us from the face
“of the One seated on the throne
and from the wrath of the Lamb.”
But these human institutions
will have no power to save them.
What will this mean for such ones?
Many goatlike ones will perish
early in the great tribulation
when the governments of this world
turn on and destroy false religion.
Many more will perish
at the hands of other goatlike people.
Ezekiel 38:21 prophetically states
that “every man’s sword
will be against his own brother.”
Finally, all remaining goatlike ones
will perish by means
of the angelic forces at Armageddon.
But as for the sheeplike ones,
the Fine Shepherd, Jesus,
will know each one of them
before the start of the great tribulation,
and he will observe their loyalty to Jehovah
throughout the great tribulation.
Then, just before Armageddon begins,
Jesus will, in effect, sit down
as judge to make the final distinction
between the sheep and the goats
out of all people then living.
Notably, in this third parable,
Jesus said that those
who were at that time judged as goats
will call him Lord.
But Jesus will make it clear
that they did not support his brothers.
So, then, any persons who were once sheeplike
but who failed to endure to the end
by courageously supporting Christ’s brothers
will be placed among the goats.
Referring to Jesus as Lord
will not save them.
It will be too late to do good
for Christ’s brothers
who will likely be with Jesus
in the heavenly Kingdom by that time.
Of course, the goats
will also include those enemies of God
who are still alive out of all the nations.
This final judging serves
an important purpose.
What is it?
It will leave no doubt
in the eyes of all then living
as to who Jesus’ righteous sheep are
as they prepare to enter the new world.
So, then, strive to keep standing
among the righteous
who will be placed at Jesus’ right hand.
God’s Word promises that as long
as sheeplike ones remain loyal to Him
and to his appointed King, Jesus,
they will be guided into everlasting life.
Such ones must display courage
by supporting the work of Christ’s brothers,
both now and during the great tribulation.
What kind of courage will be needed?
Courage like that of Onesiphorus.
The apostle Paul mentions
this faithful Christian
at 2 Timothy 1:16-18.
We invite you to read
what he said about him,
starting in verse 16:
“May the Lord grant mercy
to the household of Onesiphorus,
“for he often refreshed me,
“and he did not become ashamed
of my prison chains.
“On the contrary, when he was in Rome,
“he diligently looked for me and found me.
“May the Lord grant him to find mercy
from Jehovah in that day.”
Onesiphorus would have been
an anointed Christian,
but his example is one
for every Christian to imitate.
Just visiting Paul
could have cost Onesiphorus
his freedom or his life.
But that did not stop him from finding Paul
and refreshing him, did it?
Qualities such as Onesiphoruslike courage
will be required of all sheeplike ones
during the great tribulation.
So in summary, Jesus is now observing
the actions, attitudes,
and speech of all people.
As a thorough Judge,
he will have identified
sheeplike ones and goatlike ones
by the start of the great tribulation.
Then, according to Jesus’ parable,
just before Armageddon begins,
Jesus will pass final judgment
on all then living on earth,
giving attention to why the righteous sheep
are placed at his right hand.
Will you be found standing
among the righteous?
To receive that blessing,
don’t be swayed by the things
you see taking place
around you in this world.
Don’t be swayed by popular protests.
Remain neutral—no part of it.
Don’t be swayed by political promises.
Don’t be swayed as governments say,
“Peace and security!”
Remain neutral—no part of it.
But when it comes to obeying God’s laws,
stand firmly on the side of the Kingdom.
Only those who remain no part of the world
will be viewed by Jesus as being sheeplike
when the great tribulation begins
and when it wraps up at Armageddon.
And only those who continue
to support Jesus’ brothers
will be placed at Jesus’ right hand
when he makes the final judgment
of the righteous sheep and the cursed goats.
Show where you desire to stand
in all that you say and do right now.
And during the time yet remaining,
get ready to use
our new publication Enjoy Life Forever!
and help many more take a righteous stand
before the end comes.
Thank you, Brother Cook, for making clear
that what a person does now
to support Jehovah’s arrangement
is crucial in Christ’s final judgment
of the sheep
and goats just before Armageddon.
May all of us choose
to support true worship now
and on through the great tribulation
yet to come!
Now we are happy to share with you a video
about an upcoming video series.
Brother Stephen Lett
is the host of this presentation.
You will be delighted
with what he has to say.
Jesus said as recorded at Matthew 11:27:
“No one fully knows . . .
“the Father except the Son
and anyone to whom the Son
is willing to reveal him.”
This teaches us two things.
First, that it is possible
for us to know the Father fully,
and second, that Jesus is the key
to knowing Jehovah.
Jesus clearly identified his role
in revealing the Father.
On his last night here on earth,
he told his apostles
as recorded at John 14:6:
“I am the way and the truth and the life.
No one comes to the Father
except through me.”
Only through Jesus
can we truly know the Father
and have an approved relationship with Him.
Earlier, at the transfiguration,
Jehovah confirmed Jesus’ pivotal role
when he instructed
Peter, James, and John
to listen to Jesus.
For over a century,
“the faithful and discreet slave”
has provided a wide range of study aids
to help us learn about the life, ministry,
and teachings of Jesus Christ.
These gifts enrich our study of God’s Word.
They shed light on the world he lived in,
the places he walked,
the towns where he preached,
the landscapes he saw,
the food he ate,
and even the seasons
in which various events took place.
These printed publications
are more than just words on a page.
They illuminate Jesus’ personality
and reveal his qualities,
which mirror those of his heavenly Father.
We learn about Jesus’ compassion,
self-sacrifice,
humility, power,
boldness, courage,
and love.
More important,
focusing on Jesus’ teachings and example
draw us closer to the One who sent him.
Our meetings, assemblies, and conventions
also deepen our love and appreciation
for God’s Son.
In more recent years,
Jehovah’s organization has used videos
to reach the hearts
of all those attending our conventions.
But how can we continue
to help honest-hearted ones
to understand Jesus’ role
as King and High Priest
and to help them acquire
“the mind of Christ”?
Well, bringing events of Jesus’ ministry
to life on screen or on the printed page
is not without its challenges.
As you know,
the Governing Body
had those full-costume dramas
for years at conventions,
but never was Jesus depicted.
And you can understand the challenge.
Who’s going to play Jesus?
Can you imagine trying
to select brothers in say
200-300 (or even more)
different places
to play the role of Jesus Christ?
But then finally,
‘For a Certainty God Made Him
Lord and Christ’ (Part I, Part II)
—we went ahead,
and the Governing Body approved it:
“Go ahead. Let’s have that.”
And it worked very well.
When you see Jesus
with the woman that had a flow of blood
and the tenderness shown in our video
of Jesus dealing with that woman
and her fear
and yet her confidence
that she could be healed by him
and the way Jesus treated her,
that conveyed something
that we would not always bring up
in our imagination.
So once we saw the reaction
from the brothers and sisters
—how their hearts were touched
by this presentation—
we could see
that this is a very effective way
to portray Jesus’ teachings.
What could boost your spirituality more
than actually seeing
the Scriptures come alive?
Now here is a very exciting announcement:
The Governing Body is pleased to announce
that a very special video series about Jesus
is currently being developed.
Work is under way to develop and produce
a new, live-action dramatic series
on Jesus Christ.
The title of the series is
The Good News According to Jesus.
This series will combine the strengths
of all our preceding research and study tools
with the power of the moving image
and will enable the viewer
to gain an even deeper understanding
of Jesus’ life and ministry,
which in turn increases
our knowledge of Jehovah.
Although other religious
and commercial institutions
have produced various films
on the life of Jesus,
these have often been tainted
by unscriptural views of Jesus,
or they have placed excessive emphasis
on violence.
And existing video productions
focus on one Bible book at a time
or only on specific episodes
of Jesus’ ministry on earth.
The Good News According to Jesus,
however, will show all the events
of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John
in the order in which they happened
and in as much of the rich detail
as current research
and Bible understanding will allow.
Often, a presentation
like the one you are about to see
is shown
after a feature-length drama is released.
Such behind-the-scenes videos
help us to understand and appreciate
various facets of the video-making process.
Today, however,
we are giving you a preview
—a first look—
at an upcoming convention project
that will take years to complete.
In view of the large scope of this project,
we encourage you
to make it a matter
of earnest prayer to Jehovah
and please support it
according to your circumstances.
Would you like see
what Episode One might look like?
To provide an advance impression
of the look and feel of an episode,
Audio/Video Services prepares storyboards.
We’re pleased to share with you now
an excerpt from an animated storyboard.
Assuming that he was
in the group traveling together,
they went a day’s journey
and then began to search for him
among the relatives and acquaintances.
But not finding him,
they returned to Jerusalem
and made a diligent search for him.
Well, after three days,
they found him in the temple,
sitting in the midst of the teachers
and listening to them
and asking them questions.
But all those listening to him
were in constant amazement
at his understanding and his answers.
Now when his parents saw him,
they were astounded.
Child, why did you treat us this way?
Here your father and I
have been frantically looking for you.
Why were you looking for me?
Did you not know that I must be
in the house of my Father?
However, they did not understand
what he was saying to them.
Then he went down with them
and returned to Nazareth,
and he continued subject to them.
Also, his mother carefully kept
all these sayings in her heart.
And Jesus went on progressing in wisdom
and in physical growth
and in favor with God and men.
The true light that gives light
to every sort of man
was about to come into the world.
Of course, this is not the final video.
Rather, it’s an example
of how the words on a page can come to life.
Preparing simple, basic drawings
to convey the idea of a video
is one of the early visual tools used
during the approval process.
The animatic review is a very early milestone
for the visual storytelling.
But how has the project been developed?
What direction has the Governing Body given
for bringing events
in Jesus’ life to the screen?
So first of all,
the Governing Body approved the concept
of producing a production like this.
But there were some questions, such as,
How do you do it?
So three options were given
to the Governing Body.
The first option
was for us just to have
a theatrical stage production
similar to what we’d already done.
The second set of options involved
having a narrator speaking
and just reading the sections of Scripture
and in the background to have acting
but not actually having Jesus speaking
or those involved with Jesus speaking.
And then finally, the third option
—which is, of course, the hardest
and involves a lot of work—
is to do a real-life drama.
So we were interested to see
how the Governing Body would feel about this.
And what a joyous time it was
to hear the brothers say:
“We want the best for the brotherhood.
“We want them to be able to see
“the power and impact of what Jesus taught.
Yes, we want the third option!”
So then we realized
that there’s a lot of work ahead.
It’s easy to think:
‘The inspired text is there.
What’s to write?’
But it’s not as simple
as just taking little, half-hour chunks
out of the four Gospel accounts
and throwing them
on a script and filming them.
Which Gospel account do you use?
Do you use Matthew’s account?
Mark’s? Luke’s?
So, very quickly we saw the need to lay each
of the four Gospel accounts side by side
and decide which account
—in every case, every event—
gives us the fullest picture,
the most details.
So even if you can’t say everything
that appears in all four accounts,
you use the one
to carry the bulk of the story,
and the others provide
the rest of the details
that we’ll actually see.
The brothers who help write the dramas
have a tremendous amount of work to do.
But then there are also those
who do the research
just to make sure little details are correct,
whether it be the shoes a person has on
or whether he even wears shoes.
When you show something on film,
you are committing yourself.
You are saying that this is the explanation
or, in some cases, the application.
It goes beyond illustration;
it’s the explanation.
It’s the way to understand what happened.
And that is what sticks
with people’s memories.
So it’s a huge responsibility
to get that right.
So our Research Department
already has a lot of information.
But doing something like this
is yet another step
down the path of being very, very difficult
because there are
a lot more questions that come up.
How are we going to depict the Devil?
How do you show Jesus walking on water?
What footwear was allowed in the Soreg?
And what’s a Soreg?
Research is pivotal in this.
So you make a decision about what to depict.
But then there are details when it comes
to not just telling it,
not just reading what happened,
but now you have to show what happened.
How do you do that?
If you take something that’s static,
like a piece of artwork
that’s well-researched with solid sources,
and now bring it to life,
then in many respects,
more research needs to go into this
so that everything is looked at
from various angles.
So let me explain the challenge
we have with John chapter 6.
If we look at Map 3B in the Appendix section,
just imagine we have the Sea of Galilee here.
Now, according to what it shows us,
we have Magadan here on this side
of the Sea of Galilee,
and up here we have Capernaum.
Now, according to what this tells us,
Jesus performed his miracle
across on this side of the Sea of Galilee,
and then the apostles traveled by boat
to this general area.
Of course, Jesus joined up with them
when he walked on the water.
So according to John chapter 6,
Jesus starts to teach the crowd
as he is walking along the seashore.
But by the end of John chapter 6,
we see that Jesus
is actually speaking at that time
here in Capernaum.
So the question comes up,
What part of the dialogue
was actually stated here
in the synagogue in Capernaum,
and what part was stated
along the seashore as he was walking along?
So we’ll have to do
some research into John chapter 6
and see where there is a good break
for us to realize what words
were actually said there in the synagogue.
That’s the challenge.
We need for the friends
to be able to watch this video series
and feel they’re actually there.
And what they are seeing
is as close to the way
it must have been
as we can possibly make it.
And the role of research
helps us to ensure that.
With scripts being developed and approved,
the production team continues work
with the visual look and feel of the series.
So when we found out
that the project involved
the entirety of Jesus’ ministry,
it was simply overwhelming.
Once we’ve read our script,
we go into a phase
where we start working with storyboards.
Storyboards are kind of like a first pass
at what this story might look like.
That’s compiled
into what’s called an animatic,
which is a type of video.
So you’ve got a narration,
you’ve got dialogue, and you’ve got music,
but it’s to these cartoon boards.
It’s great because it gets you prepared
so that on set,
the challenges don’t just pop up.
You can anticipate them.
Concept art is a communication tool
to help us to get all on the same page.
Concept art helps us
to get the mood of it, the lighting,
and to experience it maybe from a perspective
that we hadn’t thought of before.
The story of Jesus’ ministry
isn’t just dry, cold facts.
It’s actually human stories.
When we see how different people
responded and reacted to Jesus’ ministry
—how they were shaped
and molded by what they experienced—
that’s essentially that character’s arc.
We go in and say:
“OK, where does our character start?
How does he grow?
And where is he by the end of this series?”
By seeing his struggles,
seeing his challenges,
it makes that character more relatable.
As years of development passed,
the immense scope of this project
came into clear focus.
A natural question arose,
Where would we record it?
When we were doing the production of Jonah,
we used parts of southern California.
And we thought
that would be a very good location.
So that was proposed to the Governing Body,
and they said, “Thank you very much,
“but we would rather
that you use existing Bethel facilities
“that would be available
and that maybe are not being utilized
to their full potential.”
We worked with Worldwide Design/Construction,
and they provided a list
of some of the branches that had space.
And as we were doing so,
it came to our attention
that in Australasia,
the printery was about to be phased out.
At the end of 2015,
the printing work was moved to Japan.
The press was then put up for sale.
It sold about three years later.
So now we had this big warehouse space
—just what we needed for a studio.
We were just stunned
to think that such a project
could be accomplished here.
But I think we’ve also seen so much evidence
of Jehovah’s blessing on this project
that it’s very clear
it’s something he wants.
The temporary accommodations
here at the branch
were due for demolition,
and, I mean, like the bulldozers
were almost at the gate.
So we were able to stop those bulldozers
and, as a result,
we’re currently renovating those residences.
Jehovah’s hand
was definitely in that experience.
Without the stopping of that demolition,
we wouldn’t have had enough accommodations
to look after this project.
It was as if Jehovah
was dropping this option in our laps
with all the criteria
that we needed to do this project.
With the primary location selected,
Production Design helps take a concept
and make it a reality.
Our goal as Production Design
is to immerse the audience in the story.
If they have that sense,
now they’re paying attention
to what’s being said on screen
—what they can learn,
what they can benefit from it.
It’s one thing to design something,
but then to execute that design
is another thing.
Even like with the throne room,
this actually is too much work.
We have to simplify it.
Do we need to show three walls?
Can we just get away with building two walls
and have the same effect,
the same production quality?
Usually,
we design the set, we build a set,
we film the set,
and then we tear the set down.
But this project is unique
in that we’re not doing that.
These buildings, these structures,
that we’re going to be filming
are going to last for years,
and so they had to be built that way.
So how do we combine
modern-day building standards to make it last
but still make it look
like an old, ancient, building
that was built 2,000 years ago?
We were looking for a certain type of finish
—a concrete finish.
Through a website,
we found there was a company
over in Perth that was able to achieve this.
And after calling them,
we found out they’re brothers.
And those brothers
have been able to come over and help us
with their expertise
to get the right type of finish.
The support from all those
under the Australasia branch territory
has been faith-strengthening.
So one of the biggest needs
we probably have at the moment
would be auditioning.
We absolutely need
more volunteers for acting.
It’s a unique and new form of sacred service.
It’s something that probably most
never thought they would ever do
or be asked to do,
but there is definitely a need.
The more that can make themselves available
through this auditioning process
would allow us to have
the right people in the roles.
One fundamental principle that underlies
any good acting is empathy.
It’s something
that we all learn as Christians.
It’s not about showing
the behavior in big ways.
It’s about understanding
who the character is,
and then it exudes naturally.
Jehovah’s organization will always train us,
and Jehovah’s spirit will make us ready
for the task that’s ahead of us.
It’s simple training,
but it’s definitely designed to help somebody
to get comfortable in front of a camera,
performing in front of many people
and being able to relax
—being able to be themselves.
To see our brothers and sisters
offering themselves,
putting themselves out in this way,
is wonderful.
When this project was first discussed,
it felt like it was so far into the future
and almost an impossibility.
It was so big in scope.
But now,
it’s actually happening
and you see Jehovah’s blessing
on the planning, on the construction,
on the people.
Will there be challenges?
Oh yeah, guaranteed.
But if Jehovah wants something done,
that’s what happens.
We have things at the right time,
and that’s what we’ve done.
We’ve advanced now
to where we’re able to do it
in such a wonderful way for the whole world.
We are working with the best words
that have ever been spoken on this planet
—words that have power and meaning.
This is such a huge endeavor,
and yet Jehovah has shown us
his direction all along.
It needs to be done.
With this project being blessed by Jehovah,
that’s what’s going to happen.
The genuine good news according to Jesus
—that’s what we’re going to have.
It’s clear that Jehovah is blessing
this tremendous undertaking.
The Good News According to Jesus
will help all of us
to teach the truth about Jesus,
and it will help us
to deepen our own appreciation
for his loving sacrifice
in behalf of all mankind.
Jesus said as recorded at John 14:13, 14:
“Whatever you ask in my name,
“I will do this,
“so that the Father may be glorified
“in connection with the Son.
“If you ask anything in my name,
I will do it.”
Thus, our sincere prayer
is that this multi-year project
will be a grand success
and will result in the salvation
of many more true disciples,
all to the praise of Jehovah’s great name.
Thank you all
for your continued prayers and support.
Thank you for encouraging yet others
to support this project with their prayers,
talents, time, and assets.
Thank you to our dear brothers
and sisters in Australasia as well
for your willing spirit.
All of us eagerly await what the future holds
for this good work ahead of us.
The prologue to the book
“Come Be My Follower”  states this:
“Jehovah sent
his only-begotten Son to the earth
“to give his life as a ransom. . . .
“In addition to dying for us,
“that Son showed us how to live.
“With each step he took,
“he kept his integrity
“and brought joy to his Father’s heart.
“Jesus also showed us
how to be like his Father.
“The ways and the will of the Father
“found perfect expression
in the words and deeds of the Son.”
If we want to draw closer to Jehovah
and know him fully,
we must continue to learn more about his Son.
May this new video series
help us to grow in love for the Son
and our loving Father, Jehovah.
What an exciting announcement!
We love the Gospel accounts.
We love Jesus’ teachings and personality,
and we love Jehovah, who is the One
that Jesus so perfectly imitated.
As stated in the video,
the Good News According to Jesus  series
will take years to complete.
To reassure you,
we do have additional Bible dramas planned
for our upcoming regional conventions.
However,
we do not have to wait
for this new video series
to be fully completed
before benefiting
from the visual Gospel accounts.
In future convention programs,
we will see the various segments
of the life of Jesus
play out each year at our convention.
With Jehovah’s guidance,
we are so well-fed spiritually.
Brother Mark Sanderson has
an interesting talk to present at this time.
His theme is “Where Is Jehovah?”
“Jehovah is with you, you mighty warrior.”
With those words, Jehovah’s angel
greeted faithful Judge Gideon,
but his reply to those words
might surprise you.
Would you open your Bibles?
Let’s read together Judges 6:13,
that’s Judges 6:13:
“At this Gideon said to him:
“‘Pardon me, my lord,
“‘but if Jehovah is with us,
“‘why has all of this come upon us?
“‘Where are all his wonderful acts
that our fathers related to us, saying,
“‘“Did Jehovah not bring us up out of Egypt?”
“‘Now Jehovah has deserted us
and given us into Midian’s hand.’”
Well, is that how you would respond
to an angel of Jehovah
who is speaking to you?
Well, probably not
under normal circumstances.
But what about in 2020?
This has truly been an incredible year!
We have faced a pandemic—
a pandemic that has robbed us
of our dear loved ones,
a pandemic that has caused us
to face isolation,
to be separated from our relatives
and close friends
so that now an epidemic of anxiety
has settled down across our earth.
At times during this year,
maybe you have felt like Gideon.
Maybe his words have been your words.
Well, what does that mean?
If you have said those things
or felt those things,
does it mean that you’re lacking faith?
Does it mean that your love for Jehovah
is disappearing
or that now you’re sort of diminishing
in your relationship with God?
Not at all.
Gideon was not
the only faithful servant of Jehovah
who expressed similar thoughts.
Do you remember what Habakkuk said?
Let’s open our Bibles.
Let’s read together Habakkuk chapter 1
and verses 2 and 3.
Habakkuk said: “How long, O Jehovah,
“must I cry for help, but you do not hear?
“How long must I ask for help from violence,
“but you do not intervene?
“Why do you make me witness wrongdoing?
“And why do you tolerate oppression?
“Why are destruction and violence before me?
And why do quarreling and conflict abound?”
Why? Why? Why?
Well, maybe those words
sound a little bit familiar to you.
But brothers, when we feel overwhelmed
by our circumstances, by our grief,
by our anxiety,
there is a question that we need to ask.
Now, this is a question
that was first recorded in the Bible
from the faithful prophet Elisha.
Now, would you read it with me?
It’s at 2 Kings chapter 2
and verse 14
—2 Kings 2:14.
It says: “Then he
[Now, this is Elisha. Then he]
“took the official garment of Elijah
that had fallen off him
“and struck the waters and said:
“‘Where is Jehovah, the God of Elijah?’
“When he struck the waters,
“they were divided
to the left and to the right,
so that Elisha went across.”
What is the question?
“Where is Jehovah?”
Now, what did Elisha mean
when he asked that question?
Was he saying: “Where is Jehovah?
Why isn’t he doing something?”
Is that the sense of the question?
Not at all.
Elisha was looking for Jehovah.
He was searching for his direction.
He wanted to see the hand of God.
Well, Elisha got the answer to his prayer.
Those waters opened right in front of him
so that he could cross.
Well, this is not the only place
where this question appears in the Bible.
Let’s look at another place
here in Jeremiah chapter 2,
Jeremiah 2:5:
“This is what Jehovah says:
“‘What fault did your forefathers find in me,
“‘so that they strayed so far from me,
“‘and they walked after worthless idols
and became worthless themselves?
“‘They did not ask,
[now notice, they did not ask]
“‘“Where is Jehovah,
“‘“the One who brought us
out of the land of Egypt,
“‘“who led us through the wilderness,
through a land of deserts and pits,
“‘“through a land of drought
and of deep shadow,
“‘“through a land where no man travels
and where no humans dwell?”’”
What’s the point?
Jehovah wanted his people to search for him.
He wanted them to ask: “Where is Jehovah?”
—to look for his hand,
to seek his help and direction.
Well, now, brothers,
why is it so urgent for us
during these critical times
—during a pandemic—
to be saying, “Where is Jehovah?”
Because we so desperately need
the help, the direction,
the support, the comfort
that come from our amazing,
our wonderful God, Jehovah.
But now you might say:
“Well, is Jehovah really going to help you?
“Is Jehovah really going to help me?
“I’m not important. I’m not significant.
Is Jehovah really going to be there for me?”
Well, look at these beautiful words
in the scripture in Isaiah chapter 57
—Isaiah chapter 57,
which is really a promise
from our God, Jehovah.
Isaiah 57:15 says:
“For this is
what the High and Lofty One says,
“who lives forever and whose name is holy:
“‘I reside in the high and holy place,
“‘[but now notice this]
“‘but also with those crushed
“‘and lowly in spirit,
“‘to revive the spirit of the lowly
and to revive the heart
of those being crushed.’”
What an amazing thought!
Here our God, Jehovah, the Almighty
who dwells in the highest heavens,
says that when we are crushed,
when we are lowly
—in a figurative sense—
he resides right with us.
How beautiful! How amazing!
Well, now, what does that mean?
What does that teach us?
It teaches us
that we need to ask that question
“Where is Jehovah?” every day.
We need to beg Jehovah for his direction.
We need to beg him for his help.
But then we need to do something more.
We need to be on the lookout
for the hand of Jehovah.
When Elijah felt completely isolated,
when he was so discouraged,
you remember, he said:
“I am the only one left.”
He just poured his heart out to Jehovah.
And what did Jehovah do for him?
Well, you remember,
Jehovah allowed Elijah to see
a miraculous display of his power.
Remember, he felt that wind;
he felt the earthquake;
he felt the fire.
But, you know, the Bible says:
“Jehovah was not in the wind.”
“Jehovah was not in the earthquake.”
“Jehovah was not in the fire.”
But then what came next?
“A calm, low voice.”
That was Jehovah.
Well, now, what do we learn
from that experience?
Sometimes, brothers, we might be waiting
for some big, bold, dramatic expression
of Jehovah’s hand.
But in reality, what do we need to do?
We need to turn up
our “spiritual hearing aids”
so that we can hear
the “calm, low voice” of Jehovah.
You see, Jehovah’s answer to our prayers
might come in a way that we don’t expect.
Maybe it’s through the kind gesture or act
of one of our brothers or sisters.
Maybe it’s through a text message,
an e-mail, a phone call,
or some other way
that our brother or sister acts
to show their kindness.
Maybe that’s Jehovah’s way
of giving us the help that we need.
That means
that when we are earnestly praying,
when we’re earnestly seeking Jehovah’s help
—be attentive, be alert,
ask: “Where is Jehovah?”
and look for his hand.
But now here’s another question, brothers:
When that help comes,
when Jehovah does provide
that assistance that you need,
will you be willing to accept it?
When Mary came to Jesus
with the perfumed oil, genuine nard
—remember, so expensive
that it would cost a year’s wages
for an average laborer—
it would have been so easy for Jesus
to turn her away,
to just say: “Oh, no, Mary,
thank you very much, but I don’t need you.
“Jehovah is going to help me,
so you can just go now,
and I’ll be fine.”
Jesus didn’t do that.
Jesus willingly accepted the help.
Now, maybe Jesus understood
that Jehovah had put it into Mary’s heart
to do this
so that his body
would be properly prepared for burial.
We don’t know.
But the point is, Jesus accepted
the help that Mary provided.
Well, brothers and sisters,
what’s the lesson?
What do we need to learn from this?
If you’re a person who always says,
“Oh, no, we’re fine; we don’t need anything;
Jehovah is going to help us,”
or, “Oh, no, you don’t need to tell me that;
I already know Jehovah
will give me the direction I need,”
well, then, you may be missing out.
We may not be seeing or hearing
the help that Jehovah wants to give us.
Let’s watch a video and see
how our brothers and sisters in distress
have experienced the help of Jehovah
at a critical time.
I thought that fire was loud.
I thought that you could hear a wildfire,
and it was just dead quiet.
By the time we went down the driveway
and around the corner,
we stopped and looked back
and the back of my parents’ house
was on fire.
When the pandemic hit, we lost our work.
We couldn’t go to work,
and we also couldn’t leave our apartment.
The situation was very hard.
My husband, Ivan, was charged
with organizing extremist activity.
He was put into pretrial detention
for four months.
I found out that I had a tumor in my chest
and I would have to have
a very serious operation.
I lost my mom to the coronavirus.
Living 3,000 miles apart,
it would be a long time
before I was able to go home at all,
and I wasn’t able to be there
when it happened.
Earlier this year, my son, Nathan, died
in a tragic accident.
He was two years old.
At that time, I asked Jehovah (the question),
“Why is this happening to me?ʺ
There were friends there before we got there.
Before we got to the place that we knew
we were going to evacuate to,
(because they asked,
“Where are you going to be?”)
they were willing to just provide anything
that we needed
before we even knew
what it was that we needed
—and especially spiritually.
Even when I didn’t know
that we needed to say a prayer, it was there.
In those moments, we saw Jehovah’s hand.
Brothers would come by and give us food.
There was even a brother that called me
when things started to go bad and said,
“I think you’re going to need some money.”
And without saying anything, he came
and left an envelope outside our apartment.
When we opened the envelope, we saw
that there was exactly the amount we needed
to pay the bills and to buy things
that we needed for the apartment.
I had only learned about brotherly love,
but during that time,
I really understood what it truly means.
During that time, brothers
who we did not even know called us,
they spent time with us,
they prayed with us,
they spent a lot of their time
encouraging us.
During that time, I saw evidence
of Jehovah’s hand in our lives.
I was really, really struggling one day,
and I had to reach out to Jehovah in prayer
and just try and throw all my burdens on him,
and not two minutes
after I finished that prayer
is when an elder reached out to me
and gave me the best shepherding call
I think I’ve ever had in my life.
And clearly, that was
Jehovah reaching out to me
and trying to show me that he understood
how I felt and was there for me.
After intensive care, I felt that I needed
someone to hold my hand,
so I understood that Jehovah
would take me by the hand.
A sister visited me every day,
she helped me get dressed,
she brushed my hair,
and we went for short walks
along the corridor.
Now I can really see how compassionate
and considerate Jehovah is
and that he knows how to support us.
He knows us inside and out.
While we were going through
this difficult time,
Jehovah helped us so much,
and we definitely saw his hand in our lives.
And in the future,
if any difficulty should occur,
we are confident
that Jehovah will help us and protect us.
It doesn’t matter what we face,
it’ll get worse and worse in this system.
But we know that Jehovah
can get us through absolutely anything.
I’ve seen the overwhelming evidence
in my own life;
I’ve seen it for others too.
And whatever Satan throws at us,
it doesn’t matter,
because Jehovah is stronger.
He’s the most powerful ally
that we could have.
At this annual meeting, we have heard so much
about what the Governing Body,
under the direction
of Jehovah God and Christ Jesus,
are doing to strengthen
Jehovah’s people worldwide.
But brothers and sisters,
do you know one thing
that is strengthening the Governing Body
to continue on in our work?
It’s you.
It’s every one of you brothers and sisters
out in the field.
We know what you’re going through.
We read your cards and letters.
We hear your expressions.
We know you’re suffering
through a difficult time.
And yet you keep going; you keep enduring;
you keep serving Jehovah faithfully.
That not only warms our hearts
but it strengthens our own faith
to continue serving Jehovah.
We are facing a challenging time now.
And as we face the great tribulation,
we will face even greater challenges.
We may have times of discouragement
just like Gideon had, just like Habakkuk had,
just as Elijah had.
But we will also prove faithful to the end
just as each of those men did.
If we do what?
If we keep looking for Jehovah,
if we keep searching for his hand,
if we keep turning up
our “spiritual hearing aids”
so that we can be attentive to the ways
that Jehovah will use to help us
and to strengthen us and to direct us.
Yes, dear brothers and sisters,
keep on asking,
“Where is Jehovah?”
That was upbuilding.
What a blessing to have now enjoyed
the entire annual meeting program!
We hope that it will help you
to continue preaching about Jehovah
and his Kingdom with renewed zeal.
It’s true that this world seems to be
in more turmoil than ever before,
but it’s clear that Jehovah’s holy spirit
is guiding us during these troublesome times.
We’ll conclude this month’s program
with our video postcard,
which comes to us from the Solomon Islands,
where my wife and I
enjoyed the privilege of serving a convention
a number of years ago.
Located northeast of Australia
in the Pacific Ocean,
the Solomon Islands
comprise six main islands
and almost one thousand smaller islands,
atolls, and reefs.
This archipelago was the site
of intense warfare during World War II,
and remnants of that war still litter beaches
in the water just offshore.
The official language
of the country is English.
However, most residents
speak Melanesian Pidgin
and other indigenous languages.
Our publications
and videos are being translated
into ten of those languages.
In the Solomon Islands,
you’ll find tree-filled mountainous terrain,
beautiful beaches,
volcanoes, and even volcanic steam vents
on the island of Simbo.
But this breathtaking beauty
comes with inherent challenges
caused by nature,
such as frequent cyclones and earthquakes.
The majority of the people
in the Solomon Islands live in rural areas,
while about 20 percent
of the population resides
in urban areas, including the capital city
of Honiara,
where our branch office is located.
In Honiara, our brothers cover the territory
with the good news just as you do.
However, at the time
this video postcard was recorded,
the brothers in Honiara
and the more than 2,000 publishers
in the Solomon Islands
had to adjust their preaching methods
because of the worldwide pandemic.
Like many of us, they quickly found
alternative ways
to accomplish their ministry.
For example,
although many publishers
in the Honiara Kukum Congregation
do not own
personal cell phones,
they found ways to make phone calls.
At times, even before our brothers
could call a return visit,
the householder was already calling them
to ask more questions about the Bible.
The 105 publishers
of the Honiara Kukum Congregation
were happy to have a total
of 490 attend the Memorial in 2020.
And now they send you
their warm love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!